DATA DISCLAIMER

1. IMPORTANT

Thank you for downloading data from the International Council for the
Exploration of the Sea (ICES). 
By downloading data from the ICES website you are agreeing to the terms and
conditions of use as described in this document and any documents referred to in
this text.
Please read this before using the downloaded data, as this file contains
specific information about the use of the data provided, limitations, and known
issues. 
This file is the counterpart to the data download with the file name: 
[XXX FILE NAME XXX]
Which was downloaded from https://intercatch.ices.dk/ the following data and
time: [XXX Date and time XXX] 

2. TERMS OF USE: DATA 

The highest resolution data in InterCatch are CONFIDENTIAL AND CANNOT BE MADE
PUBLIC AVAILABLE. Only aggregated data can be made public available.
The data can be used by any ICES fisheries management Expert Group. The data are
owned by the countries, and they are responsible for quality and updates to
data. Data users are obliged to inform ICES of any suspected problems in the
data.
Rules for use of data from the InterCatch
The data cannot be shared with other persons outside the specific ICES Expert
Group or specific group/person, which by each country have been given access to
data. Data cannot be used for other purposes than within the specific ICES
Expert Group or for none ICES Expert Group the by countries approved purpose. In
case parts of are stored at the ICES Expert Group’s SharePoint, the data must be
password protected, and the chair must control access to the password. All
persons who have a version of the data must delete the data after the specific
ICES Expert Group have finished its work or the by country allowed group/person
have finished its work.
Data from InterCatch can be shown at the aggregated level equivalent of the
aggregation level in the specific Working Group report of the stock, if in doubt
consult the specific Working Group report of the stock. Expert Groups, which do
not normally request the data in InterCatch or other groups/persons given
access, must follow the same aggregation level as the specific Working Group
report of the stock.

3. CONTACT INFORMATION

For feedback or queries about this data download, contact ICES at:
Email: InterCatchsupport@ices.dk
Tel.:	+45 3338 6700

4. DATA SPECIFIC INFORMATION

InterCatch is the tool used by the fish stock assessment Working Groups for
collecting and raising commercial fisheries data to the Working Groups. ICES
member countries upload aggregated commercial fisheries landing, effort and
sample, data, typically by; species, subdivision and quarter. The data are
uploaded by. 
The exchange format can be downloaded from the following link:

	http://ices.dk/data/Documents/Intercatch/IC-ExchangeFormat1-0.pdf

5. DATA CITATION

Data sources should be acknowledged by a citation. Detailed information and
examples of citations can be found in ICES Data Policy:
https://ices.dk/data/guidelines-and-policy/Pages/ICES-data-policy.aspx.
A minimum requirement citation would include the following:
“ICES InterCatch dataset [YEAR]. ICES, Copenhagen”  
Please acknowledge the data sources when using the data:


