DATA DISCLAIMER

1. IMPORTANT

Thank you for downloading data from the International Council for the
Exploration of the Sea (ICES). 
By downloading data from the ICES website you are agreeing to the terms and
conditions of use as described in this document and any documents referred to in
this text.
Please read this before using the downloaded data, as this file contains
specific information about the use of the data provided, limitations, and known
issues. 
This file is the counterpart to the data download with the file name: 
[XXX FILE NAME XXX]
Which was downloaded from https://www.rdb-fishframe.org/ the following data and
time: [XXX Date and time XXX] 

2. TERMS OF USE: DATA 

The highest resolution data in Regional DataBase, RDB, data are CONFIDENTIAL AND
CANNOT BE MADE PUBLICLY AVAILABLE. Only aggregated data can be made publicly
available. The rules for use of the RDB data are described in the ‘Data use 
License for the Regional Database (RDB) and Regional Database and Estimation 
System (RDBES)’, which can be found at the following link: 

	https://doi.org/10.17895/ices.pub.22188157 

The data license must be read before using the RDB data.
In the Annex 1 the ‘Use and Publication of data’ the rules are described. Below
is a part of the text:

Rules for use of data from the RDB
Data shall be used only for the purposes of facilitating scientific advice, or
other work specifically approved by the countries, and will be strictly related
to the agreed terms of reference of the activity executed by the data user.
Downloaded data shall be secured by appropriate safeguards, such as encryption
and password protection of the computer on which it is held. Electronic data
provided to the data user(s) shall not be kept on a user’s computer/database
upon completion of the task related to the term of reference. Data users shall
treat the data as confidential and the transmission or   sharing of   these data
are not allowed. Data users shall ensure that visualisations or data products
derived from the data adhere to Annex 1 of the RDBES Data Policy. Users of
detailed data must sign the “Conditions for detailed RDBES data use” agreement. 

3. CONTACT INFORMATION

For feedback or queries about this data download, contact ICES at:
Email: RDBsupport@ices.dk
Tel.:	+45 3338 6700

4. DATA SPECIFIC INFORMATION

Regional DataBase, RDB, is a commercial fisheries data portal used by national
institutes to upload commercial fisheries detailed sample, aggregated landing
and effort data. The data are uploaded by relevant EU member countries. Data are
used primarily by the EU Regional Coordination Groups (North Atlantic and North Sea
& Eastern Arctic, Baltic Sea, Long Distance Fisheries), but some ICES expert
groups also use the data. 
For more information read the Data License for the RDB/RDBES.
The exchange format can be downloaded from the following link:

	https://www.ices.dk/data/Documents/RDB/RDB%20Exchange%20Format.pdf
	

5. DATA CITATION

Data sources should be acknowledged by a citation. Detailed information and
examples of citations can be found in ICES Data Policy:
https://ices.dk/data/guidelines-and-policy/Pages/ICES-data-policy.aspx.
A minimum requirement citation would include the following:
“ICES RDB dataset [YEAR]. ICES, Copenhagen”  
Please acknowledge the data sources when using the data:


